[IMP] sales: updated product_images doc about Google API (#6251)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/products/product_images.rst

=================================
Product images with Google Images
=================================

Having appropriate product images in Odoo is useful for a number of reasons. However, if a lot of
products need images, it can become incredibly time-consuming.

But, with *Google Custom Search* API configured within the Odoo database, finding product images for
products (based on their barcode) is extremely efficient.

.. _product_images/configuration:

Configuration
=============

In order to utilize *Google Custom Search* within an Odoo database, configuration **must** be
completed on both -- Google and Odoo.

.. note::

>    Free Google accounts allow up to 100 free images per day. If a higher amount is needed, a billing

Reviewer: What are you allowed to do with the images? Select them? I think the language here could be a bit more specific.
```suggestion
   Free Google accounts allow up to 100 free images per day.
```

   upgrade is required.

.. _product_images/google-api-dashboard:

Google API dashboard
--------------------

#. Go to the `Google Cloud Platform API & Services <https://console.developers.google.com/>`_ page
   to generate Google Custom Search API credentials. Then, log in with a Google account. Next, agree
   to their :guilabel:`Terms of Service` by checking the box, and clicking :guilabel:`Agree and
   Continue`.

> #. Select (or create) an API project to store the credentials. Give it a memorable

Reviewer: You might want to provide instructions for how to do this, including GUI labels. Is there a "Create" button? Etc.
```suggestion
#. Select (or create) an API project to store the credentials. Give it a memorable
```

Author: I added more elaboration to make things clear -- because during this part of the process, the 2nd step, your presented with fields (Project Name and Location) -- that are followed by a 'Create' button -- which is indicated with GUI label.

   :guilabel:`Project Name`, select a :guilabel:`Location` (if any), then click :guilabel:`Create`.

#. With the :guilabel:`Credentials` selected in the left sidebar. Click :guilabel:`Create

>    Credentials`, and selecting :guilabel:`API key` from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer: This section doesn't make sense to me. I think it needs to be rewritten. What was there originally makes more sense.

Author: I cleaned it up a bit. Thanks for pointing this out.

   .. image:: product_images/credentials-api-key.png
      :align: center
      :alt: API & Services page on Google Cloud Platform.

#. Doing so reveals an :guilabel:`API key created` pop-up window, containing a custom :guilabel:`API
   key`. Copy and save :guilabel:`Your API key` in the pop-up window -- it will be used later. Once
   the key is copied (and saved for later use), click :guilabel:`Close` to remove the pop-up window.

   .. image:: product_images/api-key-pop-up.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The API key created pop-up window that appears.

> #. Use the search bar on the page, and search for `Custom Search API`, and select it.

Reviewer: We're supposed to use GUI labels for search bars. For the text, I just use whatever it says in the search bar before you click on it (ex. "Search...").

   .. image:: product_images/custom-search-api-search-bar.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Search bar containing "Custom Search API" on Google Cloud Platform.

#. From the :guilabel:`Custom Search API` page, enable the API by clicking :guilabel:`Enable`.

   .. image:: product_images/gcp-custom-search-api-page.png
      :align: center
      :alt: "Custom Search API" page with Enable button highlighted on Google Cloud Platform.

.. _product_images/google-pse-dashboard:

Google Programmable Search dashboard
------------------------------------

#. Next, go to `Google Programmable Search Engine <https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/>`_,
   and click either of the :guilabel:`Get started` buttons. Log in with a Google account, if not

>    already.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   already logged in.
```

   .. image:: product_images/google-pse-get-started.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Google Programmable Search Engine page with the Get Started buttons.

> #. Fill out the :guilabel:`Create a new search engine` form that appears, with the name of the
>    search engine, what the engine should search, and be sure to enable :guilabel:`Image Search` and
>    :guilabel:`SafeSearch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. On the :guilabel:`Create a new search engine` form, fill out the name of the
   search engine and what the engine should search, and be sure to enable :guilabel:`Image Search` and
   :guilabel:`SafeSearch`.
```

   .. image:: product_images/create-new-search.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Create new search engine form that appears with search engine configurations.

#. Validate the form by clicking :guilabel:`Create`.

#. Doing so reveals a new page with the heading: :guilabel:`Your new search engine has been
   created`.

   .. image:: product_images/new-search-engine-has-been-created.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The Your New Search Engine Has Been Created page that appears with copy code.

> #. From this page, click :guilabel:`Customize`, and on the :menuselection:`Overview --> Basic` page,
>    copy the ID in the :guilabel:`Search engine ID` field because it's needed for the Odoo
>    configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. From this page, click :guilabel:`Customize` to open the :menuselection:`Overview --> Basic` page.
   Then, copy the ID in the :guilabel:`Search engine ID` field. This ID is needed for the Odoo
   configuration.
```

   .. image:: product_images/basic-overview-search-engine-id.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Basic overview page with search engine ID field.

.. _product_images/setup-in-odoo:

Odoo
----

> #. In the Odoo database, go to :menuselection:`Settings app` and scroll to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the Odoo database, go to the :menuselection:`Settings app` and scroll to the
```

   :guilabel:`Integrations` section. From here, check the box beside :guilabel:`Google Images`.
   Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.

   .. image:: product_images/google-images-setting.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The Google Images setting in the Odoo Settings app page.

> #. Next, re-enter the :menuselection:`Settings app`, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Integrations`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Next, return to the :menuselection:`Settings app`, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Integrations`
```

   section. Then, enter the :guilabel:`API Key` and :guilabel:`Search Engine ID` in the fields
   beneath the :guilabel:`Google Images` feature.

#. Click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. _product_images/get-product-images:

Product images in Odoo with Google Custom Search API
====================================================

> Adding images to products in Odoo can be done on any product or product variants. This process can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding images to products in Odoo can be done on any product or product variant. This process can
```

> be completed in any Odoo application that provides access to those pages (e.g. *Sales* app,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be completed in any Odoo application that provides access to product pages (e.g. *Sales* app,
```

*Inventory* app, etc.).

> Below is a step-by-step guide detailing how to utilize *Google Custom Search API* for automatic
> product images in Odoo using the Odoo *Sales* application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a step-by-step guide detailing how to utilize the *Google Custom Search API* to assign
images to products in Odoo using the Odoo *Sales* application:
```

#. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Products` page in the *Sales* app (:menuselection:`Sales app -->

>    Products --> Products`. Or, navigate to the :guilabel:`Product Variants` page in the *Sales* app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Products --> Products`). Or, navigate to the :guilabel:`Product Variants` page in the *Sales* app
```

   (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Product Variants`).

#. Select the desired product that needs an image.

   .. note::
      Only the products, or product variants, with a barcode and do **not** an image are processed.

      If a product selected with one or more variants, each variant matching the previous criteria

>       is processed.

Reviewer: I think both of these sentences need to be rewritten. They don't make sense as is.

> #. In the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️ gear` icon menu of the product page, select :guilabel:`Get Pictures
>    from Google Images`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the :guilabel:`Action ⚙️ (gear)` icon on the product page, and select :guilabel:`Get Pictures
   from Google Images` from the menu that pops up.
```

      .. image:: product_images/get-pictures-from-google-action.png
         :align: center
         :alt: The Get Pictures from Google Images option from the Action drop-down menu in Odoo.

#. On the pop-up window that appears, click :guilabel:`Get picture`.

      .. image:: product_images/click-get-picture-from-pop-up.png
         :align: center
         :alt: The pop-up that appears in which the user should click Get Picture in Odoo Sales.

> #. Once clicked, an image(s) will appear incrementally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Once clicked, the image(s) will appear incrementally.
```

   .. note::

>       Only the 10 first images are fetched immediately. If you selected more than 10, the rest are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Only the first 10 images are fetched immediately. If you selected more than 10, the rest are
```

      :alt: The Google Images setting in the Odoo Settings app page.

#. Next, return to the :menuselection:`Settings app`, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Integrations`
   section. Then, enter the :guilabel:`API Key` and :guilabel:`Search Engine ID` in the fields
   beneath the :guilabel:`Google Images` feature.

#. Click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. _product_images/get-product-images:

Product images in Odoo with Google Custom Search API
====================================================

Adding images to products in Odoo can be done on any product or product variant. This process can be
completed in any Odoo application that provides access to product pages (e.g. *Sales* app,
*Inventory* app, etc.).

Below is a step-by-step guide detailing how to utilize the *Google Custom Search API* to assign
images to products in Odoo using the Odoo *Sales* application:

#. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Products` page in the *Sales* app (:menuselection:`Sales app -->
   Products --> Products`). Or, navigate to the :guilabel:`Product Variants` page in the *Sales* app
   (:menuselection:`Sales app --> Products --> Product Variants`).

#. Select the desired product that needs an image.

   .. note::

>       Only products (or product variants) with a barcode, and do **not** have an image, are
>       processed.
> 
>       If a product is selected with one or more variants, each variant that matches the
>       aforementioned criteria is processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Only products (or product variants) that have a barcode, but **not** an image, are
      processed.

      If a product with one or more variants is selected, each variant that matches the
      aforementioned criteria is processed.
```
